# News archive

=> index.gmi Return to main page

## 2022/01/27
New ASCII art! Isn't it nifty? ;-)

I plan to publish a few articles here, and probably some (hopefully good) fiction... oh well, there is always Bulwer-Lytton.

More importantly, I plan to create a sub-gemlog where I will publish content in Greek. I'd be the first in Geminispace to do so but HELLUG has beaten this record.

=> gemini://hellug.gr HELLUG, the Hellenic Linux User Group

## 2021/12/09
A short opinion piece about Cop26, climate hypocrisy and Boris Johnson.

=> cop26.gmi Cop26, or Climate Change is No Joke

## 2021/10/31
Trinity Desktop Environment R14.0.11 has been released.

=> tde14.0.11.gmi The soon-to-become-traditional write-up on the changes is here.

## 2021/10/27
At last publishing an article I promised — where I briefly ponder on the obsolence of technology.

This is a subject which interests me, so I might write again on this topic.

=> obsolete-tech.gmi Is Obsolete Tech Obsolete?

## 2021/10/01

"Have a good month!", as we are used to saying here where I live.

And now for something completely different: I postpone the release of tdeio-gemini 1.0, that is, Gemini protocol support for the Trinity Desktop.

If this is the first you hear of it, it's okay: I only announced it on my Mastodon account.

=> tdeio-gemini-postponed.gmi   More information here.

I wonder if there are any Trinity users around in Geminispace?


## 2021/09/21

These two articles were previously published on my blog. As I plan to get rid of my old blog, I republish them here.

=> bloatedweb.gmi       A Tale of the Bloated Web (and Wix in particular)

This article would probably be of interest to Geminauts, as it touches on a common pain ;). At that time I had to create a Wix site. I thought I knew the bloated Web, but I found out the hard way that few things can really be worse than a Wix-based website.

=> tde14.0.10.gmi           Release: TDE 14.0.10

This one article is about what's new the latest release of the Trinity Desktop Environment. I decided to write this down for whoever cared, because I really like TDE and sometimes contribute stuff.