# Climate Change is No Joke

Yet another global meeting devoted to environmentalism, Cop26 in Glasgow, England is now in progress, but many of us doubt that it will make any difference at all. With governments being key players for reducing the destructive effects of climate change, one is really disheartened by Boris Johnson's laughable speech, filled with nothing but silly analogies. One would be even more disheartened to discover that he was in such a hurry to leave Cop26 that he decided to take a private jet, thus proving further the hypocrisy of his environmental concerns. Meanwhile, concerned citizens are left to ponder how governments, which don't even seem to take the whole climate crisis business seriously, could possibly incorporate and enforce "green" policies.

=> https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2021/nov/03/johnson-takes-private-jet-from-cop26-to-london-to-attend-dinner Johnson takes private jet from Cop26 to London to attend dinner

It's not always a matter of seriousness, though. Oftentimes governments and leaders actually choose to remain inert to the industries' practices. Pressurized by the lobbies whose interests could be at stake, governments choose to give in to the corporations rather than defend their citizens' rights, like the right to a green and sustainable future. The cases are numerous. The recent approval for fracking activities in Epirus, Greece by the government is a good example. Activists and local communities warn that a vast and naturally-rich territory is to be left to the mercy of the oil corporations while the Greek prime minister speaks of the supposed economical growth of the region, gracefully gliding over the subjects of ecology, green energy and the impact of fracking activities on the environment.

=> http://sosepirus.org/en/ SOS Epirus

The deeds speak for themselves, and they communicate us alarming signals. Governments seem to care more about industries and profit than they do about human rights. They don't want to stop flirting with the corporate and industrial world, whose environmental views seem to be dating back to the first Industrial Revolution: for companies the Earth is still considered an asset, excessive mass production is fine and ruthless expansion is not something that is frowned upon. Corporations haven't exactly done anyhing to stop polluting, reduce their resources and energy use or their carbon emissions.

But it's not just corporations; there are lots of citizens who, in spite of all the warnings, have done nothing to help the matter. And we're not necessarily talking about activism. While it would be great of citizens to demand of their government to take drastic climatical measures, a simple change of habits, like ensuring unused taps and lights are closed, taking up recycling and using less cars and more mass transportation, could really make a diference. Unfortunately, most dismiss the importance of such practices with the argument that "it won't matter if I do it alone". And this is ironical, since this is exactly the argument that is used by the majority. If this majority were to care just a little more, it would certainly help matters.

In any case, scientists have been warning us about the impact of the climate crisis since the publication of World Scientists' Warning to Humanity in 1992. One would think that, nearly three decades later, some drastical measures would have been set forth to avert the climate catastrophe. But it seems like there are significant barriers which have to be overcome first. Whether it's a matter of appropriately conveying the message or just overcoming our greed, we certainly have to make haste. It's not time to be joking – as UK's prime minister did at Cop26 – about the climate crisis being like a doomsday device which James Bond has to skillfully disarm. It's time to actually do something about it. Imagine James Bond attending a meeting instead of disarming the detonator device. Wouldn't this, ironically, be the appropriate description of the present state of affairs? The answer is... Yes, Prime Minister.

=> https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2021/nov/01/what-happened-at-cop26-day-one-at-a-glance Cop26 Day One and Johnson's laughable analogy 