```
..................................................
 █      ▀▀█                   ▄▄▄▄  ▄▄▄▄▄    ▄▄▄ 
 █▄▄▄     █    ▄   ▄         ▀   ▀█ █      ▄▀   ▀
 █▀ ▀█    █    █   █             ▄▀ ▀▀▀▀▄▄ █▄▀▀█▄
 █   █    █    █   █           ▄▀        █ █    █
 ██▄█▀    ▀▄▄  ▀▄▄▀█    █    ▄█▄▄▄▄ ▀▄▄▄█▀  █▄▄█▀
..................................................
```

# Who am I?

=> about.gmi		About me
=> contact.gmi		Contact me
=> introduction.gmi	Introductory post

# What's new around here?
## 2021/10/27
At last publishing an article I promised — where I briefly ponder on the obsolence of technology.

This is a subject which interests me, so I might write again on this topic.

=> obsolete-tech.gmi Is Obsolete Tech Obsolete?

## 2021/10/01

"Have a good month!", as we are used to saying here where I live.

And now for something completely different: I postpone the release of tdeio-gemini 1.0, that is, Gemini protocol support for the Trinity Desktop.

If this is the first you hear of it, it's okay: I only announced it on my Mastodon account.

=> tdeio-gemini-postponed.gmi 	More information here.

I wonder if there are any Trinity users around in Geminispace?


## 2021/09/21

These two articles were previously published on my blog. As I plan to get rid of my old blog, I republish them here.

=> bloatedweb.gmi		A Tale of the Bloated Web (and Wix in particular)

This article would probably be of interest to Geminauts, as it touches on a common pain ;). At that time I had to create a Wix site. I thought I knew the bloated Web, but I found out the hard way that few things can really be worse than a Wix-based website.

=> tde14.0.10.gmi  	    	Release: TDE 14.0.10

This one article is about what's new the latest release of the Trinity Desktop Environment. I decided to write this down for whoever cared, because I really like TDE and sometimes contribute stuff.

